
 Instructions from professor

 Suppose that you work in the Advising Team for a large Portuguese school system, and your
school director has asked you to analyze student data and attempt to create a machine learning
model to predict a student’s performance based on select features. Your director hopes to use
this information to identify students who might need additional assistance and interventions to
improve their grade in the course.


 Am supposed to complete an end-to-end machine learning project similar to the California Housing Prices example ( am sure you have such a project on your database.), apply some data preparation steps, etc.


The dataset contains student performance data from two Portuguese schools and was originally collected from various school reports

Code should be well comemented and easily readable by someone with a limited machine
learning background. Make sure that your notebook is well organized, includes easy to
understand markdown comments throughout the notebook, along with good comments in your
code for your teammates to be able to revise your analysis for other school classes in the future.

choose a regression or classification task making sure that the data preparation,
machine learning algorithms, and metrics make sense for your type of task.

G3 will be your target column but please read through the following note from UC Irvine’s
website: “Important note: the target attribute G3 has a strong correlation with attributes
G2 and G1. This occurs because G3 is the final year grade (issued at the 3rd period),
while G1 and G2 correspond to the 1st and 2nd period grades. It is more difficult to
predict G3 without G2 and G1, but such prediction is much more useful.”
You can choose to perform a regression task or classification task:
○ Regression task: predict the numeric final G3 grade
○ Classification task: predict whether a student failed the course or not based on
their final G3 grade. According to this website, the Portugal grading system
corresponds with the following US grading scale:
